feat: allow `:global` in more places (alternative) (#12560)
sveltejs/svelte: documentation/docs/02-template-syntax/05-styles-and-classes.md

</style>
```

## :global

To apply all styles after a certain point to a selector globally, use the `:global` modifier.

```svelte
<style>
	:global {
		/* applies to every <div> in your application */
		div { ... }

		/* applies to every <p> in your application */
		p { ... }
	}

	.a :global {
		/* applies to every `.b .c .d` element, in any component,
		   that is inside an `.a` element in this component */
		.b .c .d {...}
	}
</style>
```

> > The second example above could also be turned into a `.a :global .b .c .d` selector, where everything after the `:global` is unscoped. Both forms are semantically equal, and as such this form is also supported, but the nested form is recommended instead when writing styles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The second example above could also be written as an equivalent `.a :global .b .c .d` selector, where everything after the `:global` is unscoped, though the nested form is preferred.
```

</style>
```

## :global

To apply all styles after a certain point to a selector globally, use the `:global` modifier.

```svelte
<style>
	:global {

> 		div {
> 			/* this will apply to every <div> in your application */
> 			margin: 0;
> 		}
> 		p {
> 			/* this will apply to every <p> in your application */
> 			color: blue;
> 		}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		/* this will apply to every <div> in your application */
		div {...}
		
		/* this will apply to every <p> in your application */
		p {...}
```

	}

> 	div :global strong {
> 		/* this will apply to all <strong> elements, in any
> 			component, that are inside <div> elements belonging
> 			to this component */
> 		color: goldenrod;
> 	}

Reviewer: Blocks are still the preferred way to author local-global styles, I think the docs should reflect that. Otherwise it gives the impression that you'd use `:global {...}` for truly global styles, but `.self :global .other` for everything else

```suggestion
	div :global {
		/* this will apply to all <strong> elements, in any
			component, that are inside <div> elements belonging
			to this component */
		strong {...}
	}
```

</style>
```

> The difference between `:global` and `:global(...)` is that `:global(...)` only makes all styles within its braces global, whereas `:global` makes all styles coming after it global, including those in nested CSS.
> 
> If `:global` is preceeded by a descendant combinator, the combinator is removed from the output. That means that `div :global.x` is equivalent to `div.svelte-hash.x`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Some preprocessors will flatten nested selectors, turning the second example above into a `div :global strong` selector. As such this form is also supported, though not recommended.
```

Author: Why remove the existing sections? We could adjust them to only have global-with-nesting examples

Reviewer: Because we _shouldn't_ be recommending `div :global strong`, at least not as long as `div :global(strong)` is supported. That's just two very similar ways of achieving the same thing, which is something we generally strive to avoid.

Even if there are multiple selectors, I would argue that this...

```css
a :global(b c d) {...}
```

...is much clearer than this:

```css
a :global b c d {...}
```

I really think that from an authoring perspective, we should promote `:global {...}` as the default, and `:global(...)` as a more occasional escape hatch, and `:global selector` not at all other than in the context of 'this happens to work because reasons'.

Author: I would be ok with removing the second paragraph though I think it's worthwhile to know how to reason about it, so if there's a way to phrase it while using an example that doesn't promote the "bad" way, shouldn't we keep it?
And the first example doesn't mention anything with regards to how to write it, it provides an important comparison IMO and so I'd like to keep it

Reviewer: ok what about this? we replace all the element selectors with class selectors, to make them more abstract and so that we can have multiple selectors after the `:global`:

```css
.a :global {
	/* applies to every `.b .c .d` element, in any component,
	   that are inside an `.a` element in this component
	.b .c .d {...}
}
```

Then we can do this:

```suggestion
> Some preprocessors will flatten nested selectors, turning the second example above into an equivalent `.a :global .b .c .d` selector, where everything after the `:global` is unscoped. As such this form is also supported, but the nested form is recommended instead when writing styles.
```

Author: Moving the info into the code example works for me 👍 I'd still like to avoid using preprocessors as the reasoning and instead say "because they are semantically equivalent, this is also allowed.."

Author: pushed a tweak, let me know what you think
